Deploying OpenShift Resources to Azure
Introduction

In this hands-on lab, we will use the Azure CLI Tools to launch the Azure Resource Manager template we created to deploy all the resources needed with one fowl swoop.
Solution

Log in to the Azure Portal using the credentials provided on the lab instructions page.
Configure Cloud Shell

    If a Welcome to Microsoft Azure get started window appears, click Maybe layer.
    On the left-hand side navigation menu, click All Resources.

    Set up Cloud Shell by clicking the "Cloud Shell" icon button in the top-right hand corner of the screen:

    "Azure Cloud Shell"

    When prompted to choose an environment, click Bash to begin configuring the Cloud Shell.
    On the "You have no storage mounted" window, click Show advanced settings.

    Leave and use the existing subscription, resource group, and storage account.

    Note: If the storage account does not populate, ensure that West US is selected for the Cloud Shell region field .

    Use the same Cloud Shell region as your lab provided storage container.
    Under Storage account, click the radio button for Use existing.
    Under File share, choose the radio button for Create new and specify 123okd as the new file share name.

    Click Create storage.

    Note: Upon completion, we should a status of Cloud Shell.Succeeded.

Download SSH Keys for the Lab

    We will need to pull down the SSH keys to connect to the VMs using SSH. First, make the .ssh directory if it isn't already there with:

    mkdir .ssh

    Then cd into the directory with:

    cd .ssh

    Now, use wget to pull down the SSH keys using these links:

    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linuxacademy/content-openshift-origin-azure/master/ssh/id_rsa
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linuxacademy/content-openshift-origin-azure/master/ssh/id_rsa.pub

    Change the permission to the files to 600 with:

    chmod 600 id_rsa*

    Verify the permission changes set with:

    ls -la

    Note: The reset SSH public key task can either be performed before or after the deployment of OpenShift resources task.

Deploy OpenShift Resources

    Use cd to go back to our main directory.

    Retrieve the resource group name:

    az group list

    Copy the resource group name that appears:

    deploying_openshift_resources3803451.9880911690.date.2019092416163290

    Run the following command to deploy the resources for the OpenShift installation using an ARM template from the labs Git repo. The URL to use is:

    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linuxacademy/content-openshift-origin-azure/master/ccDeploy.json

    It should look like this:

    az group deployment create -g deploying_openshift_resources3803451.9880911690.date.2019092416163290 --name ZLandCluster --template-uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linuxacademy/content-openshift-origin-azure/master/ccDeploy.json

    Note: It should show as Running and may take a couple of minutes to successfully complete. We should not see any red error messages. To watch the creation we can also click on the All Resources section in the left-hand side navigation menu, and click Refresh to view the progress.
    Reset SSH Public Key

    Navigate back to the bastionVM-0 in the All resources section.
    Scroll down and underneath the Support + troubleshooting** section, click Reset password.
    Ensure that the radio button for Reset SSH public key is selected.
    For the Username field, type azureuser.

    Run the following command:

    vim .ssh/id_rsa.pub

    Copy the contents of the public key file, and then paste it into the SSH public key textbox.

    Click Update.

    Note: We may need to click Update twice.

    Click the "bell" icon button to view the Notifications section.
    Once we see a "Successfully reset SSH key" message, close out of the Reset password section with the X.
    Close out of the public key file.
    Under the All resources section, navigate back to bastionVM-0, and then on the Overview section, click Connect.
    In the Connect to virtual machine window, click the copy/paste icon button for the Login using VM local account section.
    Paste and run the command in the terminal to connect to the bastion host using SSH. It should look similar to this:

    ssh azureuser@40.124.9.211

    Type y for yes when asked to continue connecting.

Conclusion
